Purge more dashes (#129)
myyoda/principles-paper: main.tex

No single tool addresses all the dimensions of scientific rigor described above, though many tools contribute to one or several properties simultaneously.
For example, container technologies such as Docker or Singularity serve Portability by providing OS-level isolation from explicit environment specifications, enable Ephemerality by disposing per-execution environments, and facilitate Distributability by producing frozen, shareable artifacts.
Similarly, version control systems such as Git underpin both Tracking (content-addressed identification and change history) and Self-containment (gathering all components under a single root).

In practice, self-containing all data might be undesired or prohibitive due to size or other concerns. Extensions such as git-annex, DataLad, DVC, and Git LFS strike the balance between the two principles by tracking metadata that identifies specific data versions and obtainability information instead, e.g., content checksums and URLs of remote servers that act as a source, and providing actionable interfaces to obtain the data when necessary.

> This overlap is not incidental — it reflects the interdependence of the STAMPED properties themselves.

Reviewer: Is this an artifact of rebase or intentional? 

```suggestion
This overlap is not incidental — it reflects the interdependence of the STAMPED principles themselves.
```

Achieving Ephemerality, for instance, inherently exercises Portability and Actionability; a disposable environment must be reconstituted from explicit specifications, encouraging end-to-end automation.
Likewise, Distributability builds on Self-containment and Tracking; a research object can only be shared in a consistent, retrievable state if its boundary is well-defined and all components are precisely identified.

> The tools that serve multiple properties do so precisely because they operationalize these connections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The tools that serve multiple principles do so precisely because they operationalize these connections.
```

Author: my bad merge conflict, restored

> The tools that serve multiple properties do so precisely because they operationalize these connections.

Author: ```suggestion
The tools that enhance multiple properties of a research object do so precisely because they operationalize these connections.
```

Table~\ref{tab:stamped-tools} maps some commonly used tools and technologies to each STAMPED principle.
A comprehensive up-to-date review of existing tools is out of scope for this formalization paper and would quickly become outdated.
To fill that niche, we initiated a satellite project with a website to describe tools and examples, and characterize them in terms of STAMPED and FAIR principles [cite https://examples.stamped-principles.org].

> STAMPED principles are tool-agnostic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
STAMPED principles are tool-agnostic.
```

Author: weird merge conflict

A well-chosen tool can improve several properties at once, and a thoughtfully assembled toolchain can cover all of them.
Researchers should select tools based on their domain, infrastructure, and team familiarity, recognizing that the tools listed here are illustrative rather than prescriptive.
What matters is that the underlying property is satisfied, regardless of which tool achieves it.

> Where multiple tools enhance the same STAMPED property of an object, the choice between them often involves trade-offs between flexibility and simplicity.

Reviewer: I thought we decided not to use "STAMPED property"? It seems ok here though.

s/enhance/serve seems to work here too if you dont think its too repetitive.

```suggestion
Where multiple tools serve the same STAMPED principle, the choice between them often involves trade-offs between flexibility and simplicity.
```

Author: See other PR, this was a suggestion from Yarik. In the context of that particular sentence, it is the property of an object, to an appeal to the concept ideal

The FAIR principles\cite{wilkinson_fair_2016} established findability, accessibility, interoperability, and reusability as community norms for digital objects, later extended to research software by FAIR4RS\cite{barker_introducing_2022} and to workflows by the Workflow Community Initiative\cite{wilkinson_applying_2025}.
Wilson et~al.\cite{wilson_good_2017} codified ``Good Enough Practices'' that operationalized many of these ideals for working scientists---Actionability~(A), Tracking~(T), and Self-containment~(S).
The YODA principles\cite{hanke_yoda_2018} combined these insights into organizational practices for research data management.
De~Smedt et~al.\cite{de_smedt_fair_2020} articulated the notion of FAIR Digital Objects as ``actionable knowledge units,'' foregrounding Actionability~(A) as a first-class concern complementary to FAIR.
Building on YODA and this emphasis on actionability, the VAMP formulation\cite{hanke_what_2023} (Versioned, Actionable, Modular, Portable) made Actionability~(A), Portability~(P), and Modularity~(M) explicit organizational requirements, and introduced Ephemerality~(E) as validation for Portability~(P)---directly prefiguring STAMPED.

> Notably, the WCI-FW framework\cite{wilkinson_applying_2025} extended FAIR to computational workflows but explicitly declined to define new principles, leaving the operational gap (how a research object should be structured and managed) that STAMPED fills.

Reviewer: feels a little smoother to me, optional nit. 

```suggestion
Notably, the WCI-FW framework\cite{wilkinson_applying_2025} extended FAIR to computational workflows but explicitly declined to define new principles, leaving the operational gap  that STAMPED fills (how a research object should be structured and managed).
```

Author: nice!

\paragraph{Provenance for AI-driven changes.}
When an AI agent modifies code, generates analysis scripts, or makes architectural decisions, those actions become part of the research record.
Tracking (T) naturally extends to cover agent actions by wrapping an agent invocation in a provenance-capturing command such as \texttt{datalad run} records the model, prompt, and resulting changes alongside the output.
Some of this provenance is already captured organically through git commits authored by agents, session transcripts, and co-authorship metadata.
Emerging tools such as Entire CLI\cite{entire_entire_2026} go further, automating capture of the entire AI session alongside the commit.
A practical tension follows wherein agent sessions can produce enormous transcripts, and including them wholesale may dilute the value of more targeted provenance records, so what to capture and at what granularity remain open questions.
Bitwise reproducibility is not the target and rarely is the goal even for human-driven steps.
Instead, what the record must preserve is the hypothesis, the method specification, and enough of the decision trail to support introspection.

> Self-contained models (above) strengthen this chain---when the model itself is tracked, the provenance record is more complete.

Author: Hehe, actually ended up ADDING one here - but I think it is appropriate
